### Course Project for Getting and Cleaning Data

## Introduction
This is my submission for the course project of **Getting and Cleaning Data**.
The purpose of the project was to demonstrate the ability to collect, work and clean a data set.
This `README.md` will explain the steps needed to reproduce my work. 
All the work will be done by a single script called `run_analysis.R`, but it does require some raw data files. If these files are not found by the script, it will download them automatically. More information about the requirements and the instructions on how to run the analysis can found below under [Instructions](#instructions)
 
## Overview of files 
- README.md : This file with information surrounding the `run_analysis.R`-script
- run_analysis.R : The script which will do the analysis on the raw data and give a tidy dataset as output
- CodeBook.md : The CodeBook explaining any transformations or work that I performed to clean up the data, plus it describes the variables, the data and their meaning. 

## Raw Data
The raw data for this project came from a study on the data that was collected from the accelerometers of a Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description about the study can be found at the following website:
[http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones)

The raw data used in this project can be found at this location: [https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip) 

## Instructions
Requirements for this script to be run:
- `run_analysis.R` script itself
- **R** (version 3.2.1)

Preforming analysis:

1. Start R console
2. Make sure working directory is correct and contains the required files
3. Execute following commands:
```{r eval=FALSE}    
    source("./run_analysis.R")
    run_analysis()
```
Any needed/missing raw data will be automatically downloaded. If all the required data from `UCI HAR Dataset` is already available, then it will not be re-downloaded.
    
View output<sup>[1](#Paper)</sup>:
```{r eval=FALSE}
    data <- read.table("./tidydataset_rprg30_project.txt", header = TRUE) # tidydataset_rprg30_project.txt is the output generated by `run_analysis()` function
    View(data)
```


## References
<a name="Paper">[1]</a>: [David's personal course project FAQ](https://class.coursera.org/getdata-030/forum/thread?thread_id=37)